= Installation and start of VisualAp =
Note: VisualAp requires either JRE or JDK, version 1.5 or later. Please download it before installing VisualAp. Further details are available here: [http://java.com/en/download/index.jsp Free Java Download]

== Basic users (Windows 2000 or Windows XP required) ==
Download VisualAp-Setup.exe file and execute it in windows environment.The installation program will create a directory, putting needed files, adding windows registry keys and short-cuts in Windows start menu.


This installation does not include source files. If you are interested in source files, follow the expert users path in following section.

== Expert users ==
Download the visualap.jar file. Create a directory, e.g. Visualap, and unpack visualap.jar in that directory. Such installation does not set windows registry keys nor short-cuts, in case you need it, use the file VisualAp-Setup.exe.On the other hand visualap.jar includes all sources.


The simple way to launch the program is to run visualap.bat in a DOS window:


 Usage
        java visualap.VisualAp  <nowiki>[-fast] [-run] [-report] [-uniqueID] [-help] <filename></nowiki>
        java -jar visualap.jar  <nowiki>[-fast] [-run] [-report] [-uniqueID] [-help] <filename></nowiki>

 Command line options:
 -fast       fast startup
 -run        automatic run
 -report     print a report about available beans
 -uniqueID   print uniqueID
 -help       this help


To compile VisualAp: execute the file build.bat in a DOS window

To compile example beans: execute the file buildtest.bat in a DOS window
