#summary Tutorial for VisualAp

= Tutorial =
The scope of this paragraph is learn how to build a simple system, step by step:


  # Launch the application VisualAp, or select File->New if it is already running
  # Select in the toolbox the “ReadFile” component, move and click the mouse pointer in the left side of the workspace: the component ReadFile is placed in the left side of the workplace
  # Double-click the ReadFile component in the workspace: the properties window for ReadFile appears.
  # In the properties window press the “Choose Filter” button, select the file “sassi.jpg” and press “Done”.
  # Now select in the toolbox the “”ImageFilter” component, move and click the mouse pointer in the center of the workspace: the component ImageFilter is placed in the workplace.
  # Connect the output pin of ReadFile to the input pin of the ImageFilter component.
  # Now select in the toolbox the “”Viewer” component, move and click the mouse pointer in the right side of the workspace: the component Viewer is placed in the workplace.
  # Connect the output pin of ImageFilter to the input pin of the Viewer component.
  # Now check the system: System->Check, you should get a dialog with “System Check Passed” answer.
  # Eventually you can run the system: System->Run, a new window pops-up with the inverted image.
  # Double-click the ImageFilter component in the workspace: the properties window for ImageFilter appears. You can change the effect to 5x5Edge.
  # Run the system, again System->Run, the image will change due to the new filter.
